- [Narrator] Having the ability
to quickly update our code base,
and deploy that code through a CICD pipeline is crucial.
Hopefully, you're seeing how this is much easier now
with Azure and deploying Docker images
through GitHub Actions.
I'm going to show you an important code pipeline recipe
in managing your code and creating Docker images.
Like the previous two videos,
we're going to first open up IntelliJ,
and ensure that our project code is also loaded.
This is the code that we've been working
with in our own personal GitHub accounts.
Mine is located in the home directory
under spring boot production.
This maps to the lab exercise files
of 06_03 begin and end.
In the terminal window inside of IntelliJ,
type git switch main followed by git fetch origin,
and then git pull origin.
Next, we're going to create
a Docker workflow as your branch.
We'll do this by typing
git checkout -b docker_workflow_azure.
And let's go ahead and push this branch
to our remote repository.
We'll type git push -U origin docker_workflow_azure,
and hit Enter.
Let's go back to the Azure portal,
and under All resources,
click to create a new resource,
we'll select Web App and then Create,
and then under the Resource Group,
click Create new, we'll call this resource group
spring-boot-azure-docker-workflow-group, click OK.
For the name of the Web App,
we're going to use a very similar name.
So we'll select this spring-boot-azure-docker-workflow-app.
Under the Publish label,
we going to select Docker instead of Code,
and we'll leave everything else as default,
code, region, and Linux plan.
Click Review and create, and then Create.
With the initial part of our deployment complete,
we'll click on Go to resource,
then we'll scroll down on the left and select Configuration.
We're going to go ahead and add the port
so that the Docker image
will be visible to outside requests.
We'll do this by selecting new application setting,
and typing WEBSITES_PORT.
The port will select the value of 5000, click OK.
We'll add a new application setting,
and we'll add the SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE.
For this, we're going to type dev,azure,docker.
We'll click OK, Save, and Continue.
Next, we're going to click
on the Deployment Center on the left,
and we'll start selecting our source code,
just like we did for deploying a JAR.
You'll notice, however, three different sources at the top.
This gives us Container Registry, GitHub Actions,
and Azure Pipelines.
We're going to stick with GitHub Actions,
since we're illustrating how you can create a GitHub Action.
Under the GitHub Actions, ensure you're signed in,
select your organization, select the repository,
which is SpringBootProduction.
For the Branch, we're using docker_workflow_azure,
and for the Workflow Option,
ensure that you're selecting the first radio button
to add a workflow.
This is because we want Azure to create
and add the workflow YAML file for us.
Now, at this point,
things are different from the previous demos.
In the Registry source, select Docker Hub.
Here, you're going to need to use your Docker Hub account.
So let's go into our browsers,
and I've already opened this,
but open https://hub.docker.com.
If you don't have a Docker Hub account,
it's very easy and it's free.
We will need this to go forward
with the rest of the Azure configuration.
After you create the account,
be sure to check your email and confirm the subscription.
Now, once you're done with the Docker Hub creation,
we'll switch back to Azure.
For your login, enter your username,
and then enter your password.
For the image name, I'm going to select
spring-boot-azure-docker-workflow-app.
And we'll keep that the same.
So scroll to the bottom.
You can click Preview file or Save.
Let's go ahead and click Preview file.
And this is the workflow that we'll be adding.
There are a few changes we'll need to make,
like including the Gradle build and a Java setup.
Let's click Close, we'll click Save,
and this begin firing off the changes
to our repository branch.
Now, the next thing that we need to do
is switch back to IntelliJ, and in the terminal,
we're going to type git fetch origin.
This will be followed by git pull origin.
This will sync our work
and pull down the new GitHub workflow
that Azure has created for us.
If we go to our project window,
scroll to the top, and click on the workflows,
we should see the new Docker workflow Azure YAML file.
Now, we need to make a few changes,
but first, we're going to delete the previous YAML file.
Right click on war_workflow_azure,
select Delete, and click OK.
Inside of the Docker workflow YAML file,
we'll first change the branch to main,
then we'll scroll down to right underneath
the actions/checkout@v2,
we'll add a new name and label,
and we'll call this Set up Java Version.
This will be uses, and will use a custom action
called actions/setup-java@v1.
It enter, we'll use the with keyword.
It enter again, take out the dash,
and we'll type java-version:'1.8'
It enter, we'll add a new name label,
and this will be Build with Gradle.
It enter, will use run: ./gradlew cleand build.
The reason we need to do this
is our Docker image needs to package
the spring boot JAR file.
And that JAR file needs to be built.
The next item that we need to modify
is down underneath the build and push container image.
We'll scroll down,
find Build and push container image to registry,
and just beneath the width and above the push,
it enter, we'll type context: .,
this will tell the Docker image where the path
for the build libs directory is located.
We'll scroll on down, and we're done.
I do want to show you right here
that it's using the Docker file.
This is telling us where to find
the Docker file in the context.
Okay, so we need to fix some code
by making some adjustments made for a war file build.
This is because the previous main branch
that this Docker workflow Azure branch was loaned from,
was built for constructing wars.
So we'll touch the build.gradle,
the application.properties,
and the springboot.applicationclass.
Let's scroll down, go ahead,
and open the SpringBootProdApplication.class.
We'll remove the extends SpringBootServletInitializer.
We'll take out this override method,
and we'll also remove these two unused imports now.
We'll save that file.
We'll scroll down to our application.properties,
and we're going to first remove
the servlet.contextPath statement.
We're going to uncommon our server.port,
and we'll change the port to 5000.
This is to match what Docker is using.
Last change that we're going to make
is with the build.gradle.
We'll remove the id war at the top.
We'll take out the bootWar ask.
We'll change the sourceCompatibility to 1.8,
and we'll remove the providedRuntime for tomcat.
We'll save all those file. Save All.
Down in the terminal window, we'll type git status.
We can see the files that we've updated,
then we'll type git add .,
let's type git status again.
We can see that these are ready to be committed.
We'll type git commit -n changes for azure docker workflow,
It enter, we'll type git status one more time.
And then get push -U origin docker_workflow_Azure.
It enter. Now, let's switch back to GitHub,
and we're going to prepare to do a pull request.
GitHub has already alerted us that there are changes ready,
but let's go ahead and run through the pull request process.
We'll click Pull requests.
We'll ensure that we're comparing
when we'll type new pull requests.
We'll compare to the docker_workflow_azure.
We see that we're able to emerge,
and that there are no conflicts.
We'll click pull request, Create pull request,
we'll accept the merge,
and then we'll confirm.
With that all done, we know that it should have
kicked off one of the workflow jobs.
So let's go to the top.
We'll click on Actions.
We'll look at our workflow that's being run,
and we see that there is a build and a deploy job.
We'll click on the build,
and we have an error with our build.
Let's take a look real quick, and see what the error is.
It looks like I have a typo with my command,
so let's go back to IntelliJ.
We'll open up our workflow at the top.
Roll up to the cleand build and you can see my error.
We'll save it.
We'll type git status, git add,
git commit -m fixed a gradlew clean build command.
It enter, git status again to verify,
and then git push -U origin docker_workflow_azure.
Hit Enter. We'll go back to GitHub one more time.
I'm going to go back to my code,
'cause we'll need to do another pull request.
We'll click on our Pull requests.
We'll create new.
We'll select this to do the comparison
to the docker_workflow_azure.
We see the change. We'll create the pull request,
and we'll confirm.
Again, let's go back to our Actions.
We see that the previous had failed.
Let's click on our merge now.
We'll click on build, and we'll watch the process.
Okay, we see that the build was successful.
Let's click on the deploy job.
And GitHub is already showing that it's complete.
I'm going to click on the link again.
We'll click on the Completed job,
and now we can see the URL that is available for testing.
I'm going to copy the link address, and paste and go.
It should be noted that the first time
that these load they take a while,
sometimes it helps to stop the request and reload.
Let's try that.
And after refreshing again, the application loads.
The reason for the initial error,
and sometimes the long load time on the first try
in attempting to access the application URL,
is because the Docker image is often still being pulled
and loaded into Azure.
This is common, and depending on the server location,
load times can vary.
You just have to be patient the first time.